DEPLOY_MODEL.md, before:

# Deploying the Image Caption Generator model to IBM Cloud

1. Create a cluster using the [IBM Cloud Container Service](https://console.bluemix.net/containers-kubernetes/clusters
). For this Code Pattern we will only need to use the Free tier which gives us access to a Kubernetes cluster with 1 worker node.
   > Note: This could take anywhere from 10 minutes to half an hour.

   ![Create Cluster](doc/source/images/create-cluster.png)

2. (Optional Step) The instructions to install the command line tools are optional and not required to deploy the model using this tutorial. You may choose to install them while waiting for the cluster to be created, if you wish to do so.

3. On your cluster dashboard, select `Worker Nodes` in the sidebar and take note of the `Public IP Address` for the node.

   ![Worker IP](doc/source/images/worker-public-ip.png)

4. Click the `Kubernetes Dashboard` button to open the dashboard. Hit the `+ Create` button in the top right corner. Go to `Create an app`.
   Fill in the following fields:
   ```
    App name: <Select a name>
    Container image: codait/max-image-caption-generator:latest
    Number of pods: 1
    Service: External
    Port: 5000 | Target Port: 5000
   ```
   Then click `Deploy`

   ![App Deployment](doc/source/images/app-deploy.png)

5. In the sidebar, scroll down to `Services` under `Discovery and Load Balancing`. Click on the service that was created in the previous step. Under the `Internal endpoints`, make note of the port number that is within the range 30000 to 32676. This port is the `NodePort`.

   ![Node Port](doc/source/images/node-port.png)

6. The MAX model should be accessible at `<Public IP>:<NodePort>`.

   ![Model Service Page](doc/source/images/deployed-model.png)

Commit message:

misc readme changes (#29)
* misc readme changes

* Update DEPLOY_MODEL.md

moved protocol onto same line as ports to match ui

* Update README.md

* Update README.md

nit

* Update deploy.json

Fixed example endpoints

* Update README.md

grammar

DEPLOY_MODEL.md, after:

# Deploying the Image Caption Generator model to IBM Cloud

1. Create a cluster using the [IBM Cloud Container Service](https://console.bluemix.net/containers-kubernetes/clusters
). For this Code Pattern we will only need to use the Free tier which gives us access to a Kubernetes cluster with 1 worker node.
   > Note: This could take anywhere from 10 minutes to half an hour.

   ![Create Cluster](doc/source/images/create-cluster.png)

2. (Optional Step) The instructions to install the command line tools are optional and not required to deploy the model using this tutorial. While not required, you may choose to install them while waiting for the cluster to be created.

3. On your cluster dashboard, select `Worker Nodes` in the sidebar and take note of the `Public IP Address` for the node.

> Note: The IP address will not be displayed until the cluster is fully deployed.

   ![Worker IP](doc/source/images/worker-public-ip.png)

4. Click the `Kubernetes Dashboard` button to open the dashboard. Hit the `+ Create` button in the top right corner. Go to `Create an app`.
   Fill in the following fields:
   ```
    App name: <Select a name>
    Container image: codait/max-image-caption-generator:latest
    Number of pods: 1
    Service: External
    Port: 5000 | Target Port: 5000 | Protocol: TCP
   ```
   Then click `Deploy`

   ![App Deployment](doc/source/images/app-deploy.png)

5. In the sidebar, scroll down to `Services` under `Discovery and Load Balancing`. Click on the service that was created in the previous step. Under the `Internal endpoints`, make note of the port number that is within the range 30000 to 32676. This port is the `NodePort`.

   ![Node Port](doc/source/images/node-port.png)

6. The MAX model should be accessible at `<Public IP>:<NodePort>`.

   ![Model Service Page](doc/source/images/deployed-model.png)
